Chipalooza Test Chip #1 test plan
---------------------------------------------

--------------------------------
A. Infrastructure
--------------------------------

1. Smoke tests

	a. General comment:  All power FETs are connected to analog
	   pads without ESD protection.  Use caution when handling
	   parts.

	b. Test that circuitry does not interfere with the Caravel
	   management processor.

	c. With all logic analyzer bits off, the two user analog power
	   supplies should be able to be set to 3.3V and there should
	   be no additional power draw, because all circuits are
	   disconnected from the power supplies.

	   NOTE:  The current bias generator is connected directly to
	   VDDA1 and does not pass through a power FET;  it is the
	   only circuit other than the switches that is so connected.
	   However, it has numerous enable signals and should not draw
	   any supply current when everything is disabled.  The
	   switches likewise do not consume power (other than
	   negligible leakage power).

	d. The user digital power supplies should not create additional
	   power draw either, because all digital controls should either
	   be driving level shifters in each circuit, except for those
	   circuits which operate at 1.8V, for which the 1.8V supply is
	   drawn through a power FET.

2. Communication

	The brownout detector and the POR have test outputs connected
	to GPIO pins 1 to 4;  the brownout and overvoltage detectors
	have test outputs on GPIO pins 5 and 6.  This makes these
	signals difficult to manage;  all other projects can be reached
	by software through either UART or housekeeping SPI.

	Recommended:  Use the otherwise unused pin GPIO[36] as an input
	switch to toggle between the user project and the UART.  Use
	GPIO[37] as an input switch to toggle between the user project
	and the housekeeping SPI.

	Because the housekeeping SPI does not have direct access to the
	logic analyzer, control of the chip will have to be done through
	a program running on the management processor which may either
	communicate through UART or through the housekeeping SPI (by
	monitoring an inactive register such as the DLL trim).  

	The vast majority of logic analyzer signals are outputs
	driving block configuration.  A simple interface can simply
	specify a logic analyzer bit (see README.md for a list of
	bits used) to be set or cleared.  A handful of bits in the
	upper register range are inputs that need to be queried;
	these can be sampled and redirected to an unused output.
	Another approach would be to have a test program for each
	circuit;  however, the more general approach is better
	because it is only necessary to run a script to drive the
	UART or housekeeping SPI, not to program the flash.

3. Ground-isolated analog switch

	Many circuit outputs are routed through switches because the
	number of pads on the Caravel chip is too limited to test all
	of the necessary signals.  This particular test chip does not
	have a loopback test that can be used to measure the switch
	resistance (the 2nd test chip has that, and it will be measured
	later).  It is probably possible to get a reasonable estimate
	of the switch resistance from the bias generator test outputs
	(test TBD).

4. Power FET

	Every test circuit operates on its own power FET, isolating
	it from the power pads and from other test circuits.

	Each power FET (except for a few) has its output connected
	by a small wire to one of the bare analog pads.  This pad
	can be used to monitor the voltage at the power FET's output.
	By measuring current through the analog power supply (or
	in a few cases, digital power supply) and measuring the
	difference between the voltage at the power supply input
	and the voltage at the power FET monitoring pin, the
	resistance of the power FET can be calculated.

	A few power FETs are not being used;  however, these do not
	have monitor pins and so their output cannot be either
	connected to anything or measured.  They have enable signals
	but should not be enabled.

5. Bias current generator

	The bias current generator supplied bias currents to many of
	the other blocks.  The bias currents are in multiple units
	of a nominal unit current of 50nA, which can be either a
	source or a sink.

	To ensure correct operation of the test circuits, the bias
	generator has test outputs to check the output at different
	magnitudes and source and sink.

	The bias generator has multiple enable controls:

	Enable bias generator:  la_data_in[79] = 1
	
	This enables both sources and sinks.  The sources have an
	additional disable signal:  la_data_in[48] = 1.  This does
	not affect current sinks.

	Note that all sources have a "disable" signal rather than
	an "enable" signal.

	There are 6 test currents that should be enabled and
	measured (see README.md):

	Current test point			resistor
	100nA source (two testpoints)		10Mohms to ground
	100nA sink				10Mohms to 3.3V
	3.7uA sink				270kohms to 3.3V
	5.0uA sink				200kohms to 3.3V
	100nA sink				10Mohms to 3.3V

	The two 100nA sources are on opposite ends of the bias generator
	and can be used to measure any current difference across the
	length of the circuit.

	Sources should be connected with a resistor to ground.  Sinks
	should be connected with a resistor to power (3.3V).  Resistor
	values producing a 1V drop across the resistor are given in
	the table above;  these are just suggestions.

	TEST:  Measure currents at all test points and compare to
	expected value, and compare across samples.

6. Bandgap (CW)

	This bandgap circuit has no enable signal and is self-biased.
	It will be powered on when the corresponding power FET is
	enabled.  NOTE:  The power supply for this circuit is 1.8V
	and comes from the digital supply (vccd2).

	Measure current draw of the circuit
	Measure voltage drop at the power FET monitor pin
	Measure the bandgap output voltage at selected trim values
	(16-bit trim).

	Apply sinusoid at 1kHz to the power supply and measure
	rejection at the bandgap output

	Load output with resistances and measure load regulation.

	Measure output vs. power supply voltage.

	(With temperature force unit) Measure output vs. temperature.

--------------------------------
B. Power system
--------------------------------

7. Overvoltage detector (VBL)

	The overvoltage detector is a straightforward implementation
	with a voltage divider with a selection of voltages,
	compared against the bandgap voltage, making the circuit
	output independent of the voltage both driving the circuit
	and being tested.

	The "bandgap voltage" should be applied externally from a
	1.2V source.

	There are four trim bits to select the voltage trip point.
	These should each be tested independently.  At trim 4'b0000,
	the trip point is 3.3V, up to trim 4'b1111 with a trip point
	of 5.5V.

	5.5V is the maximum rating of the I/O pads and care should be
	taken when operating in this range.

	For each trim value, measure both the voltage needed to trigger
	the overvoltage alarm, and the voltage needed to turn it off.

	Measure the current used by the circuit both when enabled and
	disabled.
	
8. Brownout detector

	This circuit is designed to produce an alarm signal `out` (asserted low)
	when the power supply `avdd` falls below a selectable trip voltage via
	`otrip[2:0]`, ranging from 2.4V to 3.0V.

	May need to contact designer for details of some of the test signals.
	Most test signals are connected, although some are only available
	through the logic analoger.

	The circuit has its own bias generator and internal clock generator.
	The internal bias generator can be overridden in favor of an
	external bias (irsc_sel) which is connected to the on-chip bias
	generator.

	The circuit is designed to have two separate detectors at two
	different voltages.  Once can be used to produce an alarm while
	the other can be used to force a brownout reset through an interrupt.
	For the purposes of testing, these are two independent detectors.

	The two main outputs are "vunder" and "brout_filt".  The latter
	has a schmitt trigger to provide some hysteresis.  The unfiltered
	version of "brout_filt" is the signal "dcomp".  All output signals
	are in the 1.8V digital domain.

	The "vunder" trip point is controlled by setting "vtrip[2:0]".  The
	"brout_filt" trip point is controlled by setting "otrip[2:0]".

	Measure the three outputs vs. voltage over trip point settings.
	Measure glitch rejection.
	Measure current consumption in enabled and disabled modes.


9. Overvoltage detector (AJACCI)

	The overvoltage detector is a straightforward implementation
	with a voltage divider with a selection of voltages,
	compared against the bandgap voltage, making the circuit
	output independent of the voltage both driving the circuit
	and being tested.  The circuit has its own current bias,
	or the current bias can be applied from an external source
	(in the test chip, this comes from the bias current generator).

	The "bandgap voltage" should be applied externally from a
	1.2V source.

	There are four trim bits to select the voltage trip point.
	These should each be tested independently.  At trim 4'b0000,
	the trip point is 3.3V, up to trim 4'b1111 with a trip point
	of 5.5V.

	5.5V is the maximum rating of the I/O pads and care should be
	taken when operating in this range.

	For each trim value, measure both the voltage needed to trigger
	the overvoltage alarm, and the voltage needed to turn it off.

	Measure the current used by the circuit both when enabled and
	disabled.

10. Power-on-reset

	The power-on-reset circuit is essentially the same circuit as
	the brownout detector (see above) without the second channel
	and output.  All measurements should be the same as for the
	brownout detector.  However, unlike the brownout detector,
	the circuit startup is important:

	Measure circuit behavior as the power supply ramps from 0 to
	(full range = 2.5 to 3.3?).  Check behavior for slow ramps
	(10ms or more) and fast ramps (up to 2us).  Check behavior
	when analog supply is raised first, and check behavior when
	digital supply is raised first, and when both operate
	simultaneously.

	Use the bandgap from the test chip to provide the bandgap
	voltage to reflect the delay in the bandgap voltage due
	to the powering of the bandgap.  This should be done with
	the bandgap power supply being raised along with the 3.3V
	power supply, with varying delay between the 3.3V power
	supply and the 1.8V bandgap power supply (which should be
	considered independent of the 1.8V digital power supply).

--------------------------------
C. Timing system
--------------------------------

11. High-speed crystal oscillator

	Requires a crystal and load capacitors.  Need to check for
	multiple crystals in the range 4 to 16 MHz.

	Controls are "enable" and "standby".

	When "standby" is on, it should be possible to measure
	the current draw on the supply (the oscillator is running)
	but no output should be present.  If "standby" is released,
	operation should be immediate.

	Measure startup time of the oscillator when "standby" is
	not used ("enable" only).

	Measure current draw of the oscillator in disabled, standby,
	and enabled modes.

	Check startup and operation over power supply variation of +/-10%

	(With temperature force unit) Check startup and operation over
	commercial temperature range (-40C to 100C).

12. Low-speed crystal oscillator

	Tests are same as above for the high-speed crystal oscillator,
	except that the external crystal is 32.768kHz and is a fixed
	value.

--------------------------------
D. Amplifiers
--------------------------------

13. Low power operational amplifier

	This circuit has 3.3V enable and enable-bar which are handled
	outside of the circuit with a level shifter buffer and inverter.
	There are no controls other than the enable.  Inputs and outputs
	are connected directly to GPIO pins (analog function).

	Measure under conditions of varying power supply and temperature
	(when a temperature force unit is available):

	Input offset, gain, PSRR, CMRR, total current on supply (enabled
	and disabled), total current to output (source and sink).
	

14. High gain-bandwidth operational amplifier

	There are no controls other than enable.  Inputs and outputs
	are connected directly to GPIO pins (analog function).

	Measure under conditions of varying power supply and temperature
	(when a temperature force unit is available):

	Input offset, gain, PSRR, CMRR, total current on supply (enabled
	and disabled), total current to output (source and sink).  

15. Comparator

	In addition to the enable, this circuit has two bits of
	hysteresis control and six bits of trim control.  The trim
	function is in two sets of 3 bits.  Trim[2:0] controls trim
	of the N-side while trim[5:3] controls trim of the P-side.

	Measure hysteresis:  00 = none, 01 = 10mV, 11 = 50mV (10 = ??)

	Like the amplifiers, inputs and output are connected directly
	to GPIO pins, although the output, being in the digital domain,
	is connected to a digital output buffer.

	Measure under conditions of varying power supply and temperature
	(when a temperature force unit is available):

	Input offset (vs. trim), hysteresis (vs. hyst. trim), gain, PSRR,
	CMRR, total current on supply (enabled and disabled).

--------------------------------
E. Sensors
--------------------------------

16. Temperature sensor

	The temperature sensor operates on a 1.8V supply.

	The temperature sensor has two low-voltage outputs.
	Temperature must be calculated from the two outputs Vbe1 and Vbe2.
	Both outputs are in the range of around 1/2V to 1V.

	T = 714.015 * ((10.7906 / (10.7906 + (Vbe1 / (Vbe2 - Vbe1)))) - 259.802)

	Temperature reading should be stable if the bandgap voltage is
	stable.  Measure temperature output over supply voltage.  With
	temperature force unit, measure over temperature.  Without
	temperature force unit, use a hot air blower and estimate
	temperature from the ambient reading with a thermocouple.

